# Bitmap84CE
A project to attempt to display generic bitmap images on the TI 84 Plus CE.  
Now, a high quality image viewing application [(TheLastMillennial's HD-Picture-Viewer)](https://github.com/TheLastMillennial/HD-Picture-Viewer) already exists.  However, it has some problems. Specifically, it has 3 problems to my mind:  

1. It uses 8bpp indexed mode. This was done, I presume, to make the images smaller and the code easier to write (as the excellent `GRAPHX` library features many useful tools for working in 8bpp indexed mode). However, the step of converting true color images to a 256 color palette is often lossy, resulting in artifacts and image degredation due to the reduced number of colors.  
2. It requires images to be converted using a special utility. I'm sure that utility is fine (although I run Linux and so I haven't gotten to test it), but if you can implement bitmap support, you'll suddenly be able to use nearly any image editor on the planet to convert your images. Instead of writing a utility yourself, you can lean on the decades of work that has gone into image manipulation utilities to make them stable, easy to use, compatible with a variety of source formats, and available on a dizzying variety of platforms, all while making the image conversion process easier to learn and more accessible. Anyone who knows how to open and save out a picture in MS paint will be able to convert an image for use on their calculator.  
3. It requires the images to be stored on the calculator's archive. The TI 84 Plus CE has 4 MiB of archive space. The MSDDRVCE library supports devices up to 2 TiB. Allowing users to store images on USB MSDs will make the process of transferring images to the calculator faster, easier, and allow possibly half a million times more images to be stored.  
  
Right now, the project is in Pre-Alpha. A lot of work will need to be done to get it to a finished state, but with any luck, we'll get there soon.
